 TO THE many crises that have hit the developing world this year, a new one has recently been added: aid fatigue. Christian Aid, however, which yesterday launched the 35th Christian Aid week, claims so far to be immune. Although the Charities Aid Foundation has estimated that average household donations in Britain dropped by a third in recent years, Christian Aid's income in the last financial year held up well. 'We don't seem to have been affected by aid fatigue. Our support seems to have been maintained, even during the last three months,' says Mr Paul Tyler, head of finance at Christian Aid. This may be because of Christian Aid's link with the churches. It is sponsored by 41 churches and benefits from church fund raising. Christian Aid week is Britain's biggest regular fund-raising event - and the longest-running. Last year it raised Pounds 6.7m and this year hopes for at least Pounds 8m, with 400,000 volunteers delivering 16m collecting envelopes throughout Britain. The charity has come a long way from its roots as Christian Reconstruction in Europe, when it was set up in 1944 to help rebuild church and family life across the war-torn continent. One grant from its first Pounds 1m - raised through Victory in Europe collections and church grants - went towards buying hundreds of bicycles to enable clergy on the continent to get around their ruined parishes. Another funded a caravan stocked by Sainsburys on the Austro-Hungarian border to feed Hungarian refugees. In later decades the charity, renamed Christian Aid, built on its experience of refugee relief and resettlement in Europe and now works in more than 70 countries. It differs from all the overseas aid agencies except Cafod, the Catholic Fund for Overseas Development, in that it does not have its own staff based overseas, but works through indigenous church and other organisations. It aims to be an 'enabler', providing the funds and the means for local people to carry out aid and development work. 'Setting up an expatriate operation abroad is very time-consuming and costly, and it's very difficult to shift from that to something sustainable,' says Mr Paul Spray, head of aid. 'If you start with an organisation that is already there and set up, the chances of sustaining it are much greater.' Although the charity received about a third of its Pounds 33m income last year from government sources, most of it from the Overseas Development Agency for disaster relief, most of the rest was spent not on disaster relief but on long-term development programmes such as providing medical assistance in India, installing solar-powered water pumps in Somalia, and leadership training and advising farmers in Chile. Christian Aid shares its funds almost equally among churches, other Christian organisations, and secular groups. Education and campaigning inevitably plays an important part in Christian Aid's work, accounting for up to 10 per cent of expenditure - and can be a source of criticism, although the charity has so far avoided any clashes with the Charity Commission, the British charities watchdog. The commission last week published a report instructing Oxfam, Britain's biggest overseas aid charity, to stop mixing politics with charitable work, which could have important implications for other organisations such as Christian Aid. 'There is an area of unclarity about what charities can do,' says Michael Taylor, Christian Aid's director. 'But you can't have charity without politics. If a charity has a real concern for the good of the poor, it must be prepared to encourage governments to adopt policies that help the situation and don't make it worse.'