 MR NIKOLAI RYZHKOV, the former Soviet prime minister who stepped down last year following a heart attack, is emerging as the hardline challenger to Mr Boris Yeltsin for the Russian presidency. Candidates for the presidency must register before May 21. Each must secure either 100,000 supporting signatures, or the backing of at least a fifth of the deputies in the Russian parliament. The election will be held on June 12. Mr Yeltsin is considered a clear favourite, but Mr Ryzhkov will gather support from large numbers of people in the military, industry and the bureaucracy who are worried by the economic crisis and to whom he offers reassurance and order. At the same time, both he and Mr Yeltsin are careful not to stray too far away from the centre, as the centripetal forces of the first ever popular election make themselves felt. Mr Yeltsin, who together with Mr Gorbachev met leaders of the autonomous republics within Russia last Sunday, is doing all he can to project the image of a man concerned for the future of the country and working for stability in harness with the Soviet president. Mr Ryzhkov, for his part, told the armed forces newspaper Krasnaya Zvezda that he supported a 'moderately radical way' which would allow Russia to 'live better' and would revive it 'without breaking up the union . . . in a peaceful, calm way with all positions duly taken into account'. Mr Yeltsin's organisational base is in the Democratic Russia movement and the independent unions, while Mr Ryzhkov has attracted the support of the hardline Soyuz group of deputies and the Russian Communist party. Both men will face other contenders. Mr Vadim Bakatin, a member of Mr Mikhail Gorbachev's presidential council and a former interior minister, is still hesitating over entering the lists, but is presenting himself as a centrist candidate avoiding the 'extremes' of Mr Yeltsin and Mr Ryzhkov. From the hard left, Mr Alexei Sergeev, an economist, has been nominated by the United Workers Front, some of whose representatives carried pictures of Stalin in Red Square during the May Day rally earlier this month. On the radical side, Mr Aman Tuleev, chairman of Kemerovo regional soviet in the heart of the radical miners' country, will stand on the ticket that Mr Yeltsin has betrayed the radical cause by signing an agreement with Mr Gorbachev to support the anti-crisis plan. The first application for the post of presidency, however, has been filed by Mr Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the Liberal Democratic party, a group which has proclaimed itself as centrist and has until recently had a close relationship both with the Communist party and the security forces.