 DISCONTENT in Argentina's armed forces over low pay and declining budgets has raised new fears of military unrest, five months after the government crushed the fourth mutiny since the restoration of democracy in 1983. The commanders of the army, air force and navy met yesterday to analyse each service's financial problems. The meetings are intended to put pressure on the government for immediate wage rises and a general increase in military spending. Last week the navy's second-in-command said Argentina was defenceless, while Mr Erman Gonzalez, defence minister, complained that General Martn Bonnet, army commander, earned only Dollars 1,500 (Pounds 872) a month compared with a congressman's salary of Dollars 3,500. However, Mr Gonzalez said the military's demands were 'logical, but politically difficult to digest. I have no doubt that military discipline will prevail. Coups d'etat are things of the past.' None the less, one leading military analyst warned that another mutiny later this year was inevitable unless the government increased wages. Mr Domingo Cavallo, the economy minister battling to contain government spending, firmly rejected the generals' demands. Argentina's military budget is about Dollars 2bn, or 2 per cent of its gross domestic product, with wages alone accounting for 80 per cent of spending. The generals' demand for a 30-40 per cent wage increase would add about Dollars 40m-Dollars 53m a month to government expenditure. President Carlos Menem's support for Mr Cavallo forced the commanders to cancel a joint meeting planned for today at which they and senior officers were to have resigned, triggering confrontation with the government. Argentina and South Africa are in negotiations to re-establish diplomatic relations and resume sporting links. If the talks are successful, Argentina will become the first country to lift the international sports boycott, with an August tour of Argentina by the Springboks rugby team. Diplomatic relations, which were broken off in 1986, should be resumed later this year.