 THE EUROPEAN Community early today reached broad agreement on most of the outstanding issues in extending its single market to the seven countries of the European Free Trade Association (Efta). Switzerland brought 12 hours of talks to the point of collapse by demanding an individual right to opt out of future legislation governing the 19-nation European Economic Area (EEA). But it eventually bowed to its Efta partners and the EC in agreeing that any future exemptions would have to be negotiated. Efta countries won their key demand for their judges to sit alongside those of the European Community's Court of Justice to interpret disputes under EEA law. The other main sticking point - Spain's demand for access to Icelandic fishing waters in return for improved access for Efta fish products to the EC - was finessed. Mr Jacques Poos, Luxembourg's foreign minister presiding over the EC side, claimed 'a method' had been agreed for negotiators to bridge the gap between Spain's demand for 90,000 tonnes a year of mainly Icelandic fish and Iceland's refusal to make any concession at all. The highly charged issue of free trade in fish has so far been one of the biggest obstacles to agreement between the EC and Efta countries. If the 18-month long negotiation between the two groupings is successfully concluded as planned next month - and the EEA treaty ratified by all Efta parliaments - Efta countries will start putting on their statute books some 1,400 pages of EC internal market legislation developed over the past 30 years. Mr Frans Andriessen, EC external affairs commissioner, described the negotiations as far more complex than individual Efta states joining the Community outright. The EEA required special institutional arrangements, allowing Efta states a say, but not a vote, in the shaping of EC law and its interpretation, without compromising the EC's formal decision-making machinery. But inserted into the final communique was Switzerland's insistence that it could only accept a final EEA treaty if it was 'global and balanced'. The seven nations of Efta are Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland, Austria, Switzerland and associate member Liechtenstein. A full accord with the EC would create a 19-nation market of 380m consumers.