 NEI REYROLLE, part of Rolls-Royce's industrial power group, has won the UK's largest Middle Eastern order since the end of the Gulf War with a turnkey contract worth more than Pounds 100m to supply three sub-stations to Dubai, Andrew Baxter reports. The closely-fought contract is the biggest export order for Reyrolle, which provides switchgear and sub-stations for transmitting and distributing electricity, and the largest transmission sub-station contract awarded to a UK company. Reyrolle is part of Northern Engineering Industries, which was bought by Rolls-Royce in 1989. The contract is NEI's biggest since 1982, when it won an order, then worth Pounds 230m, for the Rihand coal-fired power station project in India. NEI said yesterday that the Dubai order would provide extra job security over the next two years for 2,000 Reyrolle workers at Hebburn, Tyneside, and create 'a few extra jobs'. NEI Peebles at Edinburgh, which employs 500, will also benefit from the contract by supplying eight transformers. NEI has been relatively successful in the Middle East, with Reyrolle recently completing its third substation in Saudi Arabia since 1987 in a series of deals worth about Pounds 80m. NEI Power Projects has also completed work on converting five gas turbines at a Bahrain aluminium plant to the more efficient combined cycle operation. But NEI was hit badly by UN sanctions against Iraq after the invasion of Kuwait. This prevented the company from supplying four turbine generators, worth about Pounds 70m, for a power station at Al Shemal and caused 650 job losses at NEI Parsons in Newcastle. The Dubai contract is for three 400kV substations, and includes the supply of 28 circuits of 400kV gas-insulated switchgear. Work will start immediately, and construction and commissioning continue into early 1993. Reyrolle will subcontract the civil design and construction to SAE Sadelmi, the Italian electrical contractor, while Kennedy and Donkin of the UK will be the consulting engineers. Mr Graham Shepley, Reyrolle managing director, said the news reinforced Reyrolle's position 'as a world leader in sub-station design and construction'. James Buxton writes: Weir Westgarth, the subsidiary of the Glasgow-based Weir Group, has won a contract worth Pounds 70m for a desalination plant at Jebel Ali in Dubai. The plant is part of a project worth about Pounds 500m for a gas turbine and desalination plant which will provide 400MW of power and 60m imperial gallons of drinking water, with the waste heat from the turbines being used in the desalination plant. R-R jobs move, Page 10