 VISITORS to Chicago from recession-racked cities such as New York and Boston are surprised - even envious - to find there is little sign of economic gloom in the Windy City. The American Midwest, of which Chicago is the financial and industrial capital, is weathering the current US recession relatively painlessly. The secret to the Midwest's success is not that it is enjoying a miraculous renaissance but that it did most of its hurtful shrinkage and belt-tightening in the early and mid-1980s. While regions such as New England were revelling in 1980s booms, the Midwest was becoming 'slimmer and grimmer', says Mr Haskell Benishay, professor of managerial economics at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management. Or as the refrain among Midwest economic analysts goes, 'No boom, no bust.' The US recession of 1981 prompted a significant cut in Midwestern productive capacity and a higher technology retooling. In addition, the farming sector has emerged from a mid-1980s agricultural slump competitively leaner and far less in debt. Several key factors are involved in allowing the Midwest to ease through the American economic downturn, including the relative health of the property market, a boost of exports helped by a lower valued dollar, and the attraction of investment to the region, in particular by the Japanese. While there is some weakness in the Midwest property market, it is doing better than other American regions. Midwestern housing did not appreciate in the 1980s; now there is an incipient housing pick-up. According to Commerce Department figures, Midwestern housing permits rose 14 per cent in March compared with December last year. February housing starts were up 77 per cent on January's levels. Regional home values actually rose last year and are even expected to outperform other parts of the country during the 1990s, according to Ms Diane Swonk, regional economist for the First National Bank of Chicago. The declining trend in the US dollar has buoyed Midwestern exports and foreign sales. US capital goods exports hit a record high in the fourth quarter of 1990 and much of America's capital goods production is concentrated in the Midwest, according to Mr John Silvia, chief economist for Kemper Financial Services. While there are no good statistics on regional exports, the state of Illinois said its exports increased last year by 24 per cent and state officials expect these to rise again this year by 12 per cent. Chicago area-based Illinois Tool Works saw foreign sales jump to 50 per cent of its total of Dollars 2.54bn (Pounds 1.47bn) last year. Although ITW produces much of what it sells overseas at its plants abroad, the 1990 portion of its foreign sales was double what it was five years ago, said Mr W. H. Farrell, ITW's executive vice-president. More noteworthy still, Mr Farrell said, the company recently halted plans to invest further in Germany, choosing instead to produce at home and export. He said the US was a better prospect than Europe regarding costs for building, fuel, and wage and benefits packages. While Midwest wages are regarded as high in comparison with those in other parts of the country, productivity is also higher. This is one of the reasons why 60 per cent of the American motor vehicle industry remains in the Midwest. But the industry is both the blessing and the curse of the region. It provides many well-paid manufacturing jobs; but its cyclical nature, with the concomitant problems of unemployment and drops in local consumer spending, is a big disadvantage. The large number of recent plant closures by Detroit's Big Three car-makers has hurt the Midwest in particular, and more pain is forecast because of continuing industry overcapacity. The Japanese transplants have, however, helped offset the regional job losses. And, even with a slack US car market, their plans to export Japanese cars to Europe promise to help keep them running at capacity. The best-laid export plans may, however, be spoiled if the dollar continues its recent upward path. But with respect to domestic-destined industrial production, the Midwest has been lucky never to have become heavily dependent, as have other areas, on defence spending. The pull-back in defence spending has hit other regions, such as New England and the west, far harder. The Midwest will, however, have to cope with some serious problems ahead: its infrastructure is ageing; its population is declining; its foreign trade could become uncompetitive as the dollar shifts and other regions re-tool with more advanced technology. The free trade agreement with Mexico could also further siphon off manufacturing, especially car industry, jobs. Midwest banks, reflecting the national picture, are also due for some shrinkage because of over-capacity. 'We're coming back from a very weak position. But now, we're going to have to fight for every inch,' said Mr Robert Schnorbus, business conditions economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.