 FRESH indications of the depth of the UK recession, wavering optimism for base rate cuts this week and a poor lead from Wall Street all combined to undermine the UK stock market yesterday. Pressure for a further reduction in base rates was increased by the news yesterday that the monthly rise in domestic consumer borrowing was at a six-year low in March. However, last week's cautionary views on interest rates from the Bank of England have cast uncertainty over hopes in the City of London that UK base rates will be cut this Friday in the wake of the expected fall in the UK retail price index. Attempts by the equity market to hold on to FT-SE 2,500, reached at the end of last month, proved fruitless yesterday and the market closed 37.7 points down at 2,486.6. The final picture was exceedingly gloomy, with the London market extending its losses to finish virtually at the day's low as Wall Street continued its overnight fall of 51 Dow points by losing a further 9.39 early in the new session. Confidence was not helped at the close by sudden rumours that another large rights issue is in the offing. Institutional coffers are beginning to feel the weight of a 1991 rights issue burden already approaching Pounds 4bn, without including a substantial number of share placings. In the face of Wall Street's heavy setback on Friday night, the London market opened 23 Footsie points off, quickly abandoning the FT-SE 2,500 mark attained at the close of business on April 30. There was no significant recovery during the session but further losses were restrained at first by the relative absence of sellers and a FT-SE June futures contract which managed to hold above 2,500 until late in the day. But losses in share prices were rapidly extended in late trading as the big institutions backed away from the stock market. Market volume, as recorded by a Seaq-traded shares total of 354.9m shares, was low, even by comparison with Friday's 423m figure. The institutions were believed to be top slicing, selling a small part of their holdings in blue chip stocks in the expectation that these shares will be bought back more cheaply in the weeks ahead. Weakness in oil shares set the trend for widespread losses among Wall Street-orientated stocks. The industrial blue chips featured falls in BOC, BAT Industries, Reuters and ICI. However, share losses in the international sector were mostly suffered early in the session and did not increase disproportionately after Wall Street opened lower; some analysts commented that this indicated that domestic factors were the most significant in the market yesterday. The uncertain political scene in the UK, ahead of Thursday's by-election in the Monmouth constituency acted as a further discouragement to the big institutions, which are increasingly of the view that there will be little to attract them to the UK stock market until the third quarter of the year. Trading specialists suggested yesterday that, with their cash holdings drained by rights issues, the institutions are now less willing to buy cheap stock whenever the market gives ground. Some believe that fund managers may wait until the FT-SE falls by a further 50 or more points before making serious buying forays. However, optimism for a further strong rise in the UK market over the next 12 months, perhaps to around FT-SE 2,750, remains undimmed.